Grooming for Projects.
This section contains the definition and process of grooming to help
you manage the demand process for your projects.
Let's define grooming.
It is the process of reviewing projects in the backlog to ensure
the backlog contains the appropriate projects,
that they are prioritized,
and that the projects at the top of the backlog are ready to be worked.
Why is the grooming process important?
Let's find out in the next slide.
How do you ensure you are doing the right projects?
If you make a mistake of approving a ticket in the
operational side of the house, the impact of that mistake,
I would suggest to you, may be small or may have a modest impact.
The impact to resources and budget are typically
much larger on the project side.
Projects can be very large, take many resources, and cost a lot of money.
So as the project demand starts to pile up,
you need to have a method and approach or process in order
to best decide and determine what qualifies as the best use
of your company's resources.
That is the importance of good grooming.
Now let's review a simple process that you can use as a
starting point for project grooming.
Here is the summary of the project grooming process.
Assemble the project grooming team.
Keep it the right size, just the key people.
Maybe this is performed weekly to keep abreast with new request,
but maybe monthly your team performs more comprehensive grooming.
Review new project requests and ensure all the attributes
and information are all filled out.
You need this information to help you make good decisions.
You follow the process in the previous slide,
review and incorporate feedback from the projects in work,
such as status reports and metrics and things like that,
to help you make better decisions, and lastly,
reprioritize your backlog, adjust resources on existing projects if necessary,
also,
possibly stop working projects if you need to reallocate
resources to other more pressing projects.
Now, a note on that.
It is certainly easier to start and stop an operations
ticket since there is typically less impact.
To stop a project, you will need to have solid data about the project,
its scope, goals, and outcomes in order to make a good case to stop it.
I would like to make a very key point.
Demand project management does not involve running the projects.
That'll be on the work management side that we will
talk about in the later modules,
but project demand management does involve selecting which projects to execute.
I would suggest strongly to you to ponder this point.
Demand management may be more important than work management.
In other words, doing the wrong work efficiently is worthless. Now let's move on to initiative demand management.